.TH XZXS 1 "Date: 18th May, 2022" "ZX Spectrum utils"
.SH NAME
xzxs \- show and pick up coordinates from ZX Spectrum screen
.SH SYNOPSIS
.TP
\fBxzxs\fP [\fIoptions\fP] \fIinput_file\fP
.SH OVERVIEW
The \fBxzxs\fP program is a member of zxspectrum-utils(1) suite of tools. It is an interactive utility for displaying a ZX Spectrum screen and picking up coordinates and/or screen address.
.SH DESCRIPTION
All options are optional except input file name. Options are:

.SH OPTIONS
.B \-scale
.I value
.RS
Set how much should be the screen scale up. Default is
.I 2
.RE
.PP
.B \-hex
.I 0/1
.RS
Show values in hexadecimal. Default is
.I 0
.RE
.PP
.B \-grid
.I 0/1
.RS
Show attributes grid. Default is
.I 1
.RE
.PP

.SH Function keys
You can use these keys while displaying the screen:

.B Q/ESC
Quit the program
.RE
.PP
.B H
Switch between decimal and hexadecimal output.
.RE
.PP
.B G
Turn attribute grid on/off.
.RE
.PP

.SH Info line
At the bottom of the window you can find the info line. It shows information related to position under the mouse cursor. Format of the line looks as follows:

  POS:[pixel coordinates] [attributes coordinates] ADDR: addressPix addresPixBlock addressAttr

Meaning of the values:

.B pixel coordinates
Coordinates of the pixels (bitmap) from the left top corner.
.RE
.PP
.B attributes coordinates
Coordinates of the attributes from the left top corner.
.RE
.PP
.B addressPix
Address of the pixel position in video RAM.
.RE
.PP
.B addressPixBlock
Address of pixels of the 8x8 block in video RAM.
.RE
.PP
.B addressAttr
Address of attributes in video RAM.
.RE
.PP
