.TH BIN2TAP 1 "Date: 7th July, 2019" "ZX Spectrum utils"
.SH NAME
bin2tap \- convert binary file into .tap file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.TP
\fBbin2tap\fP [\fIoptions\fP] \fIinput_file\fP
.SH OVERVIEW
The \fBbin2tap\fP program is a member of zxspectrum-utils(1) suite of tools. Use it to convert raw file into CODE block in a .tap file. Program can also create simple loader.
.SH DESCRIPTION
All options are optional except input file name. If some option is required and is not set, default value is used. Options are:

.SH OPTIONS
.B \-p
.RS
Make BASIC program instead of CODE block
.RE
.PP
.B \-a
.I address
.RS
Start address of CODE block, default value is
.I 32768
.RE
.PP
.B \-x
.I extra_address
.RS
Extra address of CODE block, default value is
.I 32768
.RE
.PP
.B \-o
.I output_file
.RS
Assign output .tap file. If this switch is not set, program try to replace extension of input file (extension is search in last 4 characters) by .tap extension. If he's not successfull, join extension after name of input file.
.RE
.PP
.B \-b
.RS
This switch include BASIC loader in output file
.RE
.PP
.B \-c
.I clear_address
.RS
Set address in CLEAR command in loader, default value is
.I 24575
.RE
.PP
.B \-r
.I run_address
.RS
Set run address in loader (RANDOMIZE USR), defaul value is
.I 32768
.RE
.PP
.B \-cb
.I value
.RS
Set BORDER colour to value, default value is
.I 0
.RE
.PP
.B \-cp
.I value
.RS
Set PAPER colour to value, default value is
.I 0
.RE
.PP
.B \-ci
.I value
.RS
Set INK colour to value, default value is
.I 7
.RE
.PP
.B \-d80
.RS
Create D80 loader, name of BASIC loader is set to "run"
.RE
.PP
.B \-append
.RS
Append created tap at end of file
.RE
.PP
.B \-hp
.B --header-poke
.RS
Include 
.I POKE 23739,111
command for dissabling tape headers
.RE
.PP
.B \-h
.B --help
.RS
Print usage information
.RE
.PP
.B \-v
.B --version
.RS
Print program version

.SH BASIC LOADER
BASIC loader for CODE blocks looks as follow:

  10 REM loader by bin2tap1.3
  20 BORDER VAL "0": PAPER VAL "0": INK VAL "7"
  30 CLEAR VAL "24575"
  40 POKE VAL "23739", CODE "o"
  50 LOAD  "name_of_file" CODE
  60 RANDOMIZE USR VAL "32768"

.SH SEE ALSO
.IR bin2mbd "(1)"
